Introduction:
this is a   machine learning project which is used to predict price of an apartment by giving fewer details.
In this model I used linear regression which gives me 93% accuracy.


Explain:

Idea: During a competition on Kaggle I seen an article on this dataset which attracted me because this type of project is useful 
for those who want to buy a new apartment but don't want to be cheated by an agent which can be eventually useful for me if I go to
 Banglore for the job and I want to buy an apartment.

Function:- basically this project tells the average price of an apartment by taking a few inputs from the user like location, 
no of bedroom and bathrooms and total sqft of the apartment.
sw
Data: I got data from Kaggle website of name Bengaluru home prices. In the dataset, information about the type, location, society, size,
 no. of bathroom and balcony and price is given.

In the dataset, Data is in raw form means there are many null values, numbers are in string format which I had been changed into an 
integer with the help of one-hot encoding, integer values in float format.

Here, I had to drop some columns because they are not contributing to prediction like society, availability, area_type etc. 

we have to remove outliers in data like in some row no of the bathroom is greater than no bedrooms, different sqft area for same bhk 
apartments.

Tools and technologies:-

 LinearRegression,matplotlib, pandas, numpy, etc.

At last, I applied linear regression on my dataset which gives me 93% accuracy which is higher than 2 more models I used on this dataset.



I had spent across 1 month to build this project in which my seniors had helped me a lot, they explained me about outliers and how to
 remove those which eventually increases my model accuracy.  



In future, I am thinking of uploading my model on a website for which I am planning to learn web development.


Drawbacks: It will not show the prices for new localities which is not listed on this dataset. For this I am planning to learn web
 scrapping on it to fetch current data from the internet to make the model updated.



challenge:-{

Here I get many outliers in data, one of them in sqft area of the apartment ranges for 400-650 sqft for 2bhk apartment which is suspicious,
 so I researched about this on the Internet in many sites for apartments 1acre.com and many where I got to know that average 2bhk flat is
 600sqft. So I had to remove these outliers by taking 300sqft for each bhk. like 4bhk area should be 1200sqft. I used standard deviation 
and mean to remove outliers by making another column of sqft area per bhk.

}







